Website Master Document 

 

Home page 

Title 

Disability Heritage: Archaeology with Difference 

Curated by Hannah Vogel  

 

Placeholder image 

Image (File Name): Placeholder1_HomePageFullDisplay.jpeg 

Caption: Photograph (Placeholder) of the display at the Gale History Museum © Hannah Vogel and Gale History Museum  

Alt text: A photograph of the Disability Heritage: Archaeology with Difference display. There is a tall glass cabinet with three shelves and a panel to the left. The panel features the overview text, an iPad with this website, a QR code to this website and several tactile models of the objects in the glass case.  

 

Audio-description: *..still need to write  

 

Overview text: 

Disability is part of our history. However, archaeology is often ableist, overlooking, or worse, devaluing disabled experiences.  

This display invites you to think differently. 

 

If we place disability at the centre of our story, the object on the top shelf can represent the use of mobility aids, despite not usually being understood as disability representation. The middle shelf challenges the ideal of a bodily norm. It features a diversity of bodies, both human and divine, demonstrating difference across cultures and throughout time. The feeding vessels on the bottom shelf are evidence of community and care. These objects, created thousands of years apart, are products of differences in bodily experience within a community.  

 

This display is not only about disability, it is for the disability community. The accessibility ‘features’ are disability heritage just as much as the archaeological material behind the glass.   

 

HV decide if adding Quote (Group 34 template) – still need to add  

 

 

 

Auslan Video 

Transcript: …. 

Caption: ** 

 

Acknowledgments:  

This research was undertaken on the lands of the Wallumatta of the Dharug Nation, whose cultures and customs have nurtured and continue to nurture this land, since the Dreaming. 

 

This project is supported by the Commonwealth through an Australian Government Research Training Program Scholarship [DOI: https://doi.org/10.82133/C42F-K220] and the National Disability Research Partnership Disability Leadership Program. 

 

Contact us (group 34 template) 

(paragraph of text) 

 

YouTube  

LinkedIn  

Instagram  

 

 

About Page 

 

Visitor Information and Accessibility  

Website. still need to add   

On-campus still need to add   

 

 

Curation and Acknowledgments 

 

Curator  

Hannah Vogel (bio) … (need to add + edit & incl publications) Also need to add profile photo  

Sample for now i.e. placeholder:   

Hannah Vogel is an archaeologist researching ableism and disability. She is an advocate for accessibility, with experience in museums, outreach and inclusive pedagogies. Hannah is a teaching academic and PhD candidate in the School of Humanities (Macquarie University) and awarded emerging leader of disability by National Disability Research Partnership. 

  

 

Funding 

This exhibition is funded by the National Disability Research Partnership’s Disability Research Leadership Program (2026). It is part of Hannah Vogel’s PhD project supported by the Commonwealth through an Australian Government Research Training Program Scholarship DOI: https://doi.org/10.82133/C42F-K220.  

 

Acknowledgements  

This research was undertaken on the lands of the Wallumattagal clan of the Dharug Nation, whose cultures and customs have nurtured and continue to nurture this land, since the Dreaming. Their sovereignty was never ceded. 

 

Thanks to the Gale History Museum, Macquarie University for providing access to the materials for this exhibition, with special thanks to Leila Wallace, Dr Yvonne Inall and Sarah Judd. Thanks also to: 

    Dr Brian Ballsun-Stanton (website accessibility, development and support) 

    Mike Baber (3D models and prints)  

    Dave Frame (Signage and installation)  

    Vision Australia (Tactile fabrication, large-print and braille guides)  

 

I acknowledge [disability] community consultation, was provided by the National Disability Research Partnership staff (especially, Catherine Raffaele and Jess Rosenthal), and the Disability Research Leaders Community of Practise members (especially, Matthew Jackson and Samantha Lilly). Acknowledgments for feedback and consultation also from Dr Alexandra F. Morris, Amy Cripps, Cecily Bateman, Chaya Kasif, Damian Gilbert, Dr David Chapman, Dr Ewan Coopey, Gessika Crowe, Hannah Newman, Jackie Tang, Dr Julia Hamilton, Dr Katie Shead, Louise Pryke, Marianne Strauss, Narges Safari, Nicole Leong, Penelope Blake, Prof Ronika Power, Sarah Massingham, Taylah Evans and many other community members who have elected to remain anonymous. 

 

Special thanks to Hannah Newman and Dr Brian Ballsun-Stanton for their work supporting the administrative and technical development of this exhibition and associated website.  

 

In most instances, I have chosen to use identity-first disability language as a personal preference. acknowledge that preferences vary amongst the diverse disability community and respect the choices of each person to express their experiences and embodiments. 

 

 

Website team  

Students to fill. 	 

 

 

Top shelf  

*Instead of ‘First Shelf’ 

 

Header Section: 

Exhibition Title: Disability Heritage: Archaeology with Difference 

 

Images: 

Image 1 (File Name): 1 Pelike_MU4759_front_Image1 

Caption: Pelike, MU4759, front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 1. A Pelike. A large Greek-style vase. The scene depicts two men facing each other. One appears to use a staff, possibly as a mobility aid.  

Image 2 (File Name): 1 Pelike_MU4759_front scene_Image2  

Caption: Pelike, MU4759, front close-up of scene © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 1. Close-up of the scene on a pelike. A large Greek-style vase. The scene depicts two men facing each other. One appears to use a staff, possibly as a mobility aid.  

Image3 (File Name): 1 Pelike_MU4759_back_Image3 

Caption: Pelike, MU4759, back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 1. A Pelike. A large Greek-style vase. The scene depicts one seated man and one standing woman facing each other. The woman holds a fan and the man a dish of some sort. Flower-like shapes border the top, scrolls and swirls line the sides, and a Greek key runs along the bottom.  

 

3D scan: Yes/No 

Link: n/a at present  

 

Object Details: 

Object Name: 1. Pelike.  

 

Overview Text: This pelike depicts the use of a mobility aid: a staff or cane. In ancient Greece, staff-like objects were also symbols of power, authority and justice. Archaeological narratives are selective about how these artefacts are interpreted, often rejecting the possibility of disability coinciding with symbols of power.  

 

Audio (Visual) Description: This large ceramic vessel has a wide, thick rim upon a flared neck. A line of leaf-like decorations wraps around the neck. It has one handle on either side, starting below the rim and meeting at the shoulder of the vessel, which becomes a wide, bulbous body upon a circular base. The vessel is black in colour with a light orange scene in the centre. The scene depicts two young men facing each other. Both men are barefoot, have curly hair and wear large toga-style tunics that cover their bodies to the ankle, draping across one shoulder and leaving the other exposed. The man on the left is holding a long staff with his right hand; his arm is bent at the elbow. His right leg is outlined by the fabric and appears to be slightly bent forward, while his right shoulder is facing downwards, as if he is being supported by this staff. The other figure holds a shorter, curved object with his right hand around shoulder height; his arm is bent at the elbow. The two figures are standing on a geometric pattern above the vessel base and are framed by swirling patterns on either side.   

 

Object Information:  

Acq. No: MU4759  

Material: Ceramic  

Dimensions: * 

Details: Painter of Bari 8010, Southern Italy, 350-340 B.C.E. Purchase, 2013  

 

 

Middle Shelf 

 

Hero Object Image: 

Image (File Name): 4 Figure of a Musician_MU0086_hero shot_Image2 

Caption: 4. Figure of a Musician, MU0086, front-right side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 1. A Pelike. A large Greek-style vase. The scene depicts two men facing each other. One appears to use a staff, possibly as a mobility aid.  

 

Overview Text: Figurines were made for various reasons and were often accessible to many people. These differently shaped bodies are votive offerings or amulets used for protection, ensuring health and/or fertility, invoking the divine, or for afterlife beliefs. These are an important reflection of the reality of diversity, rather than an ‘ideal’ body.   

 

 

The Objects: 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  

 

Object 2: 

 

Object Name: 2. Reclining Figure  

 

Images: 

Image 1 (File Name): 2 Reclining Figure_MU4249_front_Image1 

Caption: 2 Reclining Figure, MU4249, front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 2. Reclining figure. This mould-made ceramic figure depicts a person reclining on their left side on a chaise-like base. The bodily and facial features are unclear due to the softness of the moulding. Remnants of pink-red, cream, and yellow paint are heavily worn on the base, back, and legs of the figure.  

Image 2 (File Name): 2 Reclining Figure_MU4249_back_Image2 

Caption: 2 Reclining Figure, MU4249, back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 2. Reclining figure. This mould-made ceramic figure depicts a person reclining on their left side on a chaise-like base. This is the back of the figurine, which is smooth. Very few remnants of pink-red, cream, and yellow paint are visible on the back.  

Image 3 (File Name): 2 Reclining Figure_MU4249_base_Image3 

Caption: 2 Reclining Figure, MU4249, base view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 2. Reclining figure. This mould-made ceramic figure depicts a person reclining on their left side on a chaise-like base. This is a photo of the figurine’s base. The museum accession number is visible, as are some remnants of yellow and pink-red paint.  

3D scan: Yes/No 

Link: n/a at present  

 

Object Details: 

Overview Text: * 

 

Audio (Visual) Description: This mould-made ceramic figure is of a person, reclining on their left side upon a chaise-like base. The bodily and facial features are unclear due to the softness of the moulding. There are remnants of pink-red, cream and yellow coloured paint, heavily worn on the base, back and legs of the figure.   

  

Object Information:  

Acq. No: MU4249 

Material: Ceramic  

Dimensions: * 

Details: Possibly Rhodian, c.500-400 B.C.E. Bequest of Graham Joyner, 2008.  

 

 

Object 3:  

 

Object Name: 3. Bronze dancer (replica) 

 

Images: 

Image 1 (File Name): 3 Bronze Dancer_MU0101_front_Image1 

Caption: 3 Bronze dancer, MU0101, front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 3. Bronze dancer (a replica), a metal figurine of a woman appearing to dance, fitted to a wooden base.   

Image 2 (File Name): 3 Bronze Dancer_MU0101_back_Image2 

Caption: 3 Bronze dancer, MU0101, back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 3. Bronze dancer (a replica), the back of a metal figurine showing a woman appearing to dance, fitted to a wooden base.  

Image 3 (File Name): 3 Bronze Dancer_MU0101_left side front_Image3 

Caption: 3 Bronze dancer, MU0101, left side front © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 3. Bronze dancer (a replica), a metal figurine of a woman appearing to dance, fitted to a wooden base. The figurine is angled so the woman’s front left side is visible.  

Image 4 (File Name): 3 Bronze Dancer_MU0101_left side back_Image4 

Caption: 3 Bronze dancer, MU0101, left side back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 3. Bronze dancer (a replica), a metal figurine of a woman appearing to dance, fitted to a wooden base. The figurine is angled so the woman’s left side and back are visible.  

Image 5 (File Name): 3 Bronze Dancer_MU0101_right side front_Image5 

Caption: 3 Bronze dancer, MU0101, right side front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 3. Bronze dancer (a replica), a metal figurine of a woman appearing to dance, fitted to a wooden base. The figurine is angled so the woman’s front right side is visible.  

Image 6 (File Name): 3 Bronze Dancer_MU0101_right side back_Image6 

Caption: 3 Bronze dancer, MU0101, right side back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 3. Bronze dancer (a replica), a metal figurine of a woman appearing to dance, fitted to a wooden base. The figurine is angled so the woman’s right side and back are visible.  

 

3D scan: Yes/No 

Link: n/a at present  

 

 

Object Details: 

Overview Text: * 

 

Audio (Visual) Description: A bronze figurine of a woman, fixed to a modern wooden block base. The figure is wearing a long dress that is fitted to the body, and a headdress; the hood or hair is shaped to a rounded point behind her head. The figure’s arms are held out wide with sleeves flaring slightly at the elbows. The left hand is held up with the palm facing outwards; the right is also held away from the body, but the palm faces down. The figure’s left foot is further forward than the right, and the heel of the right foot is slightly lifted to give the impression they are moving. The fabric of their dress appears slightly stretched around the legs, and several incised lines detail the head, face, neckline and dress.  

  

Object Information:  

Acq. No: MU0101 

Material: Bronze 

Dimensions: * 

Details: Boston, c.1997. Purchased in 1997. Copy of Etruscan bronze, c.525-500 BCE, 01.7482, from the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston  

 

 

 

Object 4:  

 

Object Name: 4. Figure of a musician 

 

Images: 

Image 1 (File Name): 4 Figure of a Musician_MU0086_front_Image1 

Caption: 4. Figure of a musician, MU0086, front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 4. Figure of a Musician. A carved figure kneeling, holding a drum with both hands  

Image 2 (File Name): 4 Figure of a Musician_MU0086_hero shot_Image2 

Caption: 4. Figure of a musician, MU0086, front right-side view © Gale History Museum.  

Alt Text: Object 4. Figure of a Musician. A carved figure kneeling, holding a drum with both hands. The figure is angled so the drummer’s front-right side is visible.  

Image 3 (File Name): 4 Figure of a Musician_MU0086_front left side_Image3 

Caption: 4. Figure of a musician, MU0086, front left-side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 4. Figure of a Musician. A carved figure kneeling, holding a drum with both hands. The figure is angled so the drummer’s front-left side is visible.  

Image 4 (File Name): 4 Figure of a Musician_MU0086_left side_Image4 

Caption: 4. Figure of a musician, MU0086, left side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 4. Figure of a Musician. A carved figure kneeling, holding a drum with both hands. The figure is angled so its left side faces forward.  

Image 5 (File Name): 4 Figure of a Musician_MU0086_right side_Image5 

Caption: 4. Figure of a musician, MU0086, right side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 4. Figure of a Musician. A carved figure kneeling, holding a drum with both hands. The figure is angled so its right side faces forward.  

Image 6 (File Name): 4 Figure of a Musician_MU0086_left side back_Image6 

Caption: 4. Figure of a musician, MU0086, back left-side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 4. Figure of a Musician. A carved figure kneeling, holding a drum with both hands. The figure is angled so its left side and back are visible.  

Image 7 (File Name): 4 Figure of a Musician_MU0086_right side back_Image7 

Caption: 4. Figure of a musician, MU0086, back right-side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 4. Figure of a Musician. A carved figure kneeling, holding a drum with both hands. The figure is angled so its right side and back are visible.  

Image 8 (File Name): 4 Figure of a Musician_MU0086_back_Image8 

Caption: 4. Figure of a musician, MU0086, back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 4. Figure of a Musician. A carved figure kneeling, holding a drum with both hands. The figure is angled so its back is visible.  

 

3D scan: Yes/No 

Link: View in 3D (Link)  

 

 

Object Details: 

Overview Text: * 

 

Audio (Visual) Description: A human figure kneeling and holding a drum with both hands at the front and centre of their body between waist and chest height. The figure is likely mould made and faces forward with the rendered impression of a human face. In several places, there are remnants of blue and black paint, with black lines concentrating around the top of the head, the neck and above the knees. The kilt-like skirt appears to have been painted to knee length with a large patch of blue pigment still extant below the waist. 

  

Object Information:  

Acq. No: MU0086 

Material: * 

Dimensions: * 

Details: Greece, 7th-6th century B.C.E. Purchased in 1997. 

 

 

 

 

Object 5:  

 

Object Name: 5. Seated statuette 

 

Images: 

Image 1 (File Name): 5 Seated Statuette_MU3735_front_Image1 

Caption: 5. Seated statuette, MU3735, front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 5. Seated statuette. A ceramic statuette of a seated human figure. The object is possibly mould-made and is placed on a (modern) black base. The figure wears a large and tall circular headdress and is seated upright.  

Image 2 (File Name): 5 Seated Statuette_MU3735_front left side_Image2 

Caption: 5. Seated statuette, MU3735, front left side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 5. Seated statuette. A ceramic statuette of a seated human figure. The object is possibly mould-made and is placed on a (modern) black base. The figure wears a large and tall circular headdress and is seated upright. The figure is angled so its front-left side is visible.  

Image 3 (File Name): 5 Seated Statuette_MU3735_left side_Image3 

Caption: 5. Seated statuette, MU3735, left side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 5. Seated statuette. A ceramic statuette of a seated human figure. The object is possibly mould-made and is placed on a (modern) black base. The figure wears a large and tall circular headdress and is seated upright. The figure is angled so left side is visible.  

Image 4 (File Name): 5 Seated Statuette_MU3735_right side_Image4 

Caption: 5. Seated statuette, MU3735, right side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 5. Seated statuette. A ceramic statuette of a seated human figure. The object is possibly mould-made and is placed on a (modern) black base. The figure wears a large and tall circular headdress and is seated upright. The figure is angled so its right side is visible.  

Image 5 (File Name): 5 Seated Statuette_MU3735_back_Image5 

Caption: 5. Seated statuette, MU3735, back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 5. Seated statuette. A ceramic statuette of a seated human figure. The object is possibly mould-made and is placed on a (modern) black base. The figure wears a large and tall circular headdress and is seated upright. The figure is angled so its back is visible.  

 

3D scan: Yes/No 

Link: View in 3D (link)  

 

 

Object Details: 

Overview Text: * 

 

Audio (Visual) Description: A ceramic statuette of a seated human figure. The object is possibly mould-made and is placed on a (modern) black base. The figure wears a tall, circular headdress and soft moulding suggests facial features, but not in detail. The figure’s arms, torso and legs are shaped, although the object appears more worn from the waist down. The figure is seated upright. The top of the chair finishes just behind the figure's shoulders, touching the nape of the neck. The arms of the chair are shaped wide around the hips of the seated figure, before tapering in towards the base which finishes at the floor.  

  

Object Information:  

Acq. No: MU3735 

Material: Ceramic 

Dimensions: * 

Details: Mesopotamia, Greek seated figurine, c.3000 B.C.E. Purchased in 2003.  

 

 

Object 6:  

 

Object Name: 6. Bronze figure of Priapus 

 

Images: 

Image 1 (File Name): 6 Bronze Figurine of Priapus_MU4697_front_Image1 

Caption: Bronze figure of Priapus, MU4697, front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 6. Bronze figure of Priapus. A metal figurine of the deity Priapus. He is facing forward with an obviously enlarged and erect penis.  

Image 2 (File Name): 6 Bronze Figurine of Priapus_MU4697_close up_Image2 

Caption: Bronze figure of Priapus, MU4697, view of upper torso © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 6. Bronze figure of Priapus. A metal figurine of the deity Priapus. He is facing forward with an obviously enlarged and erect penis. Close-up showing only the figurine’s top half, from groin up.  

Image 3 (File Name): 6 Bronze Figurine of Priapus_MU4697_back_Image3 

Caption: Bronze figure of Priapus, MU4697, back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 6. Bronze figure of Priapus. A metal figurine of the deity Priapus. He is facing forward with an obviously enlarged and erect penis, but this image is of the back of the figurine, showing the thin metal museum mount.  

Image 4 (File Name): 6 Bronze Figurine of Priapus_MU4697_right side_Image4 

Caption: Bronze figure of Priapus, MU4697, right-side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 6. Bronze figure of Priapus. A metal figurine of the deity Priapus. He is facing forward with an obviously enlarged and erect penis. The figure is angled so the right side is visible.  

Image 5 (File Name): 6 Bronze Figurine of Priapus_MU4697_right side front_Image5 

Caption: Bronze figure of Priapus, MU4697, front-right side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 6. Bronze figure of Priapus. A metal figurine of the deity Priapus. He is facing forward with an obviously enlarged and erect penis. The figure is angled so the front-right side is visible.  

Image 6 (File Name): 6 Bronze Figurine of Priapus_MU4697_left side front_Image6 

Caption: Bronze figure of Priapus, MU4697, front-left side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 6. Bronze figure of Priapus. A metal figurine of the deity Priapus. He is facing forward with an obviously enlarged and erect penis. The figure is angled so the front-left side is visible.  

Image 7 (File Name): 6 Bronze Figurine of Priapus_MU4697_left side_Image7 

Caption: Bronze figure of Priapus, MU4697, left-side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 6. Bronze figure of Priapus. A metal figurine of the deity Priapus. He is facing forward with an obviously enlarged and erect penis. The figure is angled so the left side is visible.  

Image 8 (File Name): 6 Bronze Figurine of Priapus_MU4697_top_Image8 

Caption: Bronze figure of Priapus, MU4697, top view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 6. Bronze figure of Priapus. A metal figurine of the deity Priapus. He is facing forward with an obviously enlarged and erect penis. The image shows the figurine from above, with a view of the top of Priapus’ head.  

Image 9 (File Name): 6 Bronze Figurine of Priapus_MU4697_bottom_Image9 

Caption: Bronze figure of Priapus, MU4697, base view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 6. Bronze figure of Priapus. A metal figurine of the deity Priapus. He is facing forward with an obviously enlarged and erect penis. The image shows the base of the figurine, with the museum’s object number on Priapus’ feet.  

 

3D scan: Yes/No 

Link: https://macquarie.nira.app/a/hpbtWsRWSQaHaJPHElDtJQ/1 

 

 

Object Details: 

Overview Text: * 

 

Audio (Visual) Description: A metal figurine of the deity Priapus. He is facing forward with an obviously enlarged and erect penis. He has a short beard and is wearing a toga-style draped tunic that is knee-length but gathers at the waist where it is held by both hands above the waist to expose the genitals. His legs are positioned together, and he is wearing shoes.  

  

Object Information:  

Acq. No: MU4697 

Material: Bronze 

Dimensions: * 

Details: Roman, c.1st-4th century C.E. Purchased in 2012.   

 

 

Object 7:  

 

Object Name: 7. Terracotta figurine 

 

Images: 

Image 1 (File Name): 7 Terracotta Figurine_MU2676_front_Image1 

Caption: Terracotta figurine, MU2676, front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 7. Terracotta figurine, a ceramic human-like figure. The face is shaped with a long, pointed nose, and holes in the clay indicate eyes and a mouth. The body is very loosely moulded and flares widely to a circular shape at the bottom. The figure is placed on a black (modern) square base. 

Image 2 (File Name): 7 Terracotta Figurine_MU2676_front left side_Image2 

Caption: Terracotta figurine, MU2676, front-left side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 7. Terracotta figurine, a ceramic human-like figure. The face is shaped with a long, pointed nose, and holes in the clay indicate eyes and a mouth. The body is very loosely moulded and flares widely to a circular shape at the bottom. The figure is placed on a black (modern) square base. The figure is angled so the front-left side is visible.  

Image 3 (File Name): 7 Terracotta Figurine_MU2676_front right side_Image3 

Caption: Terracotta figurine, MU2676, front-right side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 7. Terracotta figurine, a ceramic human-like figure. The face is shaped with a long, pointed nose, and holes in the clay indicate eyes and a mouth. The body is very loosely moulded and flares widely to a circular shape at the bottom. The figure is placed on a black (modern) square base. The figure is angled so the front-right side is visible.  

Image 4 (File Name): 7 Terracotta Figurine_MU2676_left side_Image4 

Caption: Terracotta figurine, MU2676, left side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 7. Terracotta figurine, a ceramic human-like figure. The face is shaped with a long, pointed nose, and holes in the clay indicate eyes and a mouth. The body is very loosely moulded and flares widely to a circular shape at the bottom. The figure is placed on a black (modern) square base. The figure is angled so the left side is visible.  

Image 5 (File Name): 7 Terracotta Figurine_MU2676_right side_Image5 

Caption: Terracotta figurine, MU2676, right side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 7. Terracotta figurine, a ceramic human-like figure. The face is shaped with a long, pointed nose, and holes in the clay indicate eyes and a mouth. The body is very loosely moulded and flares widely to a circular shape at the bottom. The figure is placed on a black (modern) square base. The figure is angled so the right side is visible.  

Image 6 (File Name): 7 Terracotta Figurine_MU2676_back left side_Image6 

Caption: Terracotta figurine, MU2676, back left-side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 7. Terracotta figurine, a ceramic human-like figure. The face is shaped with a long, pointed nose, and holes in the clay indicate eyes and a mouth. The body is very loosely moulded and flares widely to a circular shape at the bottom. The figure is placed on a black (modern) square base. The figure is angled so the back-left side is visible.  

Image 7 (File Name): 7 Terracotta Figurine_MU2676_back right side_Image7 

Caption: Terracotta figurine, MU2676, back-right side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 7. Terracotta figurine, a ceramic human-like figure. The face is shaped with a long, pointed nose, and holes in the clay indicate eyes and a mouth. The body is very loosely moulded and flares widely to a circular shape at the bottom. The figure is placed on a black (modern) square base. The figure is angled so the back-right side is visible.  

Image 8 (File Name): 7 Terracotta Figurine_MU2676_back_Image8 

Caption: Terracotta figurine, MU2676, back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 7. Terracotta figurine, a ceramic human-like figure. The body is very loosely moulded and flares widely to a circular shape at the bottom. The figure is placed on a black (modern) square base. The figure is angled so its back is visible; the back is smooth except for three small pieces of clay pinched and lying flat at the top of the head, almost mimicking hair.  

 

3D scan: Yes/No 

Link: * awaiting being sent link 

 

Object Details: 

Overview Text: * 

 

Audio (Visual) Description: Humanoid clay figurine of beige colour. Modelling at the top of the head may represent either a short hairstyle or a headdress. The face is shaped with a long, pointed nose. Holes in the clay indicate eyes and a mouth. There is no indication of a chin; the head and neck seamlessly merge. The body is very loosely moulded, with the indication of arms and hands held inwards and against the body, made from pinched and folded clay. The lower body flares widely to an amorphous fluted shape. The object rests on a small black (modern) square plinth, held in place by short metal prongs on either side of the figurine base.  

  

Object Information:  

Acq. No: MU2676 

Material: Terracotta 

Dimensions: * 

Details: Cyprus, c.7th century B.C.E. Purchased in 1986.  

 

Object 8:  

 

Object Name: 8. Amulet of Pataikos 

 

Images: 

Image 1 (File Name): 8 Amulet of Pataikos_MU0523_front_Image1 

Caption: Amulet of Pataikos, MU0523, front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 8. Amulet of Pataikos. Moulded in faience, a teal-green glazed ceramic, this small amuletic figure is of the ancient Egyptian deity Pataikos. Represented as a standing male figure with dwarfism, a large head, and clenched fists, with legs slightly bent apart. Behind the figure's head, there is a loop for it to be worn.  

Image 2 (File Name): 8 Amulet of Pataikos_MU0523_back_Image2 

Caption: Amulet of Pataikos, MU0523, back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 8. Amulet of Pataikos. Moulded in faience, a teal-green glazed ceramic, this small amuletic figure is of the ancient Egyptian deity Pataikos. Represented as a standing male figure with dwarfism, a large head, and clenched fists, with legs slightly bent apart. Behind the figure's head, there is a loop for it to be worn. This photo shows the back of the amulet, where the figure’s butt is clearly defined.  

Image 3 (File Name): 8 Amulet of Pataikos_MU0523_right side_Image3 

Caption: Amulet of Pataikos, MU0523, right side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 8. Amulet of Pataikos. Moulded in faience, a teal-green glazed ceramic, this small amuletic figure is of the ancient Egyptian deity Pataikos. Represented as a standing male figure with dwarfism, a large head, and clenched fists, with legs slightly bent apart. Behind the figure's head, there is a loop for it to be worn. The figurine lies on its back with its right side visible, clearly showing the loop for threading. 

Image 4 (File Name): 8 Amulet of Pataikos_MU0523_left side_Image4 

Caption: Amulet of Pataikos, MU0523, left side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 8. Amulet of Pataikos. Moulded in faience, a teal-green glazed ceramic, this small amuletic figure is of the ancient Egyptian deity Pataikos. Represented as a standing male figure with dwarfism, a large head, and clenched fists, with legs slightly bent apart. Behind the figure's head, there is a loop for it to be worn. The figurine lies on its back with its left side visible, clearly showing the loop for threading.  

Image 5 (File Name): 8 Amulet of Pataikos_MU0523_top_Image5 

Caption: Amulet of Pataikos, MU0523, top view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 8. Amulet of Pataikos. Moulded in faience, a teal-green glazed ceramic, this small amuletic figure is of the ancient Egyptian deity Pataikos. Represented as a standing male figure with dwarfism, a large head, and clenched fists, with legs slightly bent apart. Behind the figure's head, there is a loop for it to be worn. The photo is taken of the top of the figure’s head, which appears to be smooth.  

Image 6 (File Name): 8 Amulet of Pataikos_MU0523_bottom_Image6 

Caption: Amulet of Pataikos, MU0523, base view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 8. Amulet of Pataikos. Moulded in faience, a teal-green glazed ceramic, this small amuletic figure is of the ancient Egyptian deity Pataikos. Represented as a standing male figure with dwarfism, a large head, and clenched fists, with legs slightly bent apart. Behind the figure's head, there is a loop for it to be worn. This photo shows the base of the amulet, where the museum number ‘MU523’ is written in a white marker.  

 

3D scan: Yes/No 

Link: https://macquarie.nira.app/a/S89lZLMKRfCoB5qdh4sjRQ/1  

 

 

Object Details: 

Overview Text: * 

 

Audio (Visual) Description: Moulded in faience, a teal-green glazed ceramic, this small amuletic figure is of the ancient Egyptian deity Pataikos. Represented as a standing, naked human male with dwarfism, the figure has a large head, arms beside the torso, slightly bent at the elbows, clenched fists, and legs bent so they are slightly apart at the knees. There is a loop behind the figure’s head, indicating that it may have been suspended from a string.  

  

Object Information:  

Acq. No: MU0523 

Material: Green Faience 

Dimensions: * 

Details: Egypt, Third Intermediate Period or Ptolemaic period, c. 1069 - 664 / 332 - 30 B.C.E. Donation, Prof. Naguib Kanawati, 1980.  

 

 

Bottom Shelf 

 

Hero Object Image: 

Image (File Name): 11 Feeding Vessel_MU3368_hero shot_Image1 

Caption: 11. Feeding vessel, MU3368, front angled view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 11. Feeding vessel. A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top featuring several incised holes, a narrow handle, a thin pouring spout and a flat base 

 

Overview Text: These feeding vessels, despite differences in design over time, were made to support the needs of people. They represent difference, creating change in [material] culture.    

 

 

The Objects: 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  

 

Object 9:  

 

Object Name: 9. Feeding cup 

 

Images: 

Image 1 (File Name): 9 Feeding Cup_AHM1985053_front angled_image1 

Caption: Feeding cup, AHM/1985/053, front view angled © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: 9. Feeding cup, a white porcelain cup, with a long pouring spout and small handle. The top of the cup is half enclosed on the spout side to enable the vessel to be tilted. There is an outlining gold decoration applied around the edges of the top of the vessel, and a strip of gold on the pouring spout. While heavily faded, there appears to have been a gold line also on the vessel’s handle.   

Image 2 (File Name): 9 Feeding Cup_AHM1985053_sideprofile with handle_image2 

Caption: Feeding cup, AHM/1985/053, side profile with handle view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: 9. Feeding cup, a white porcelain cup, with a long pouring spout and small handle. The top of the cup is half enclosed on the spout side to enable the vessel to be tilted. There is an outlining gold decoration applied around the edges of the top of the vessel, and a strip of gold on each side of the pouring spout. While heavily faded, there appears to have been a gold line also on the vessel’s handle. The vessel is angled so this handle is directly in view.  

Image 3 (File Name): 9 Feeding Cup_AHM1985053_sideprofile without handle_image3 

Caption: Feeding cup, AHM/1985/053, side profile without handle view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: 9. Feeding cup, a white porcelain cup, with a long pouring spout and small handle. The top of the cup is half enclosed on the spout side to enable the vessel to be tilted. There is an outlining gold decoration applied around the edges of the top of the vessel, and a strip of gold on each side of the pouring spout.  

Image 4 (File Name): 9 Feeding Cup_AHM1985053_front_image4 

Caption: Feeding cup, AHM/1985/053, front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: 9. Feeding cup, a white porcelain cup, with a long pouring spout and small handle. The top of the cup is half enclosed on the spout side to enable the vessel to be tilted. There is an outlining gold decoration applied around the edges of the top of the vessel, and a strip of gold on each side of the pouring spout. While heavily faded, there appears to have been a gold line also on the vessel’s handle.   

Image 5 (File Name): 9 Feeding Cup_AHM1985053_back_image5 

Caption: Feeding cup, AHM/1985/053, back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: 9. Feeding cup, a white porcelain cup, with a long pouring spout and small handle. The top of the cup is half enclosed on the spout side to enable the vessel to be tilted. There is an outlining gold decoration applied around the edges of the top of the vessel, and a strip of gold on each side of the pouring spout. While heavily faded, there appears to have been a gold line also on the vessel’s handle.   

Image 6 (File Name): 9 Feeding Cup_AHM1985053_top_image6 

Caption: Feeding cup, AHM/1985/053, top view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: 9. Feeding cup, a white porcelain cup, with a long pouring spout and small handle. In the image, the cup is angled so the top is in full view. The top of the cup is half enclosed on the spout side to enable the vessel to be tilted. There is an outlining gold decoration applied around the edges of the top of the vessel, and a strip of gold on each side of the pouring spout. While heavily faded, there appears to have been a gold line also on the vessel’s handle.   

Image 7 (File Name): 9 Feeding Cup_AHM1985053_bottom_image7 

Caption: Feeding cup, AHM/1985/053, bottom view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: 9. Feeding cup, a white porcelain cup, with a long pouring spout and small handle. The top of the cup is half enclosed on the spout side to enable the vessel to be tilted. There is an outlining gold decoration applied around the edges of the top of the vessel, and a strip of gold on each side of the pouring spout. The photograph shows the base of the cup, including the museum label, ‘AH85053.’ Another gold line is visible from this angle on the underside of the pouring spout.  

 

 

3D scan: Yes/No 

Link: * 

 

Object Details: 

Overview Text: * 

 

Audio (Visual) Description: A white porcelain cup, with a long pouring spout and small handle. The top of the cup is half- enclosed on the spout side to enable the vessel to be tilted. There is a gold decorative line applied to the top of the vessel, outlining the rim. A gold line also runs down the side of the spout to the point at which it meets the cup wall, and a gold line is also observed on the vessel’s handle. The faded nature of this line may indicate frequent use of this object.  

  

Object Information:  

Acq. No: AHM/1985/053 

Material: Porcelain 

Dimensions: * 

Details: Unknown place of creation, 1930. Donation, Prof. Robin Walker, 1985.   

 

 

Object 10:  

 

Object Name: 10. Spouted Vessel  

 

Images: 

Image 1 (File Name): 10 Spouted Vessel_MU0091_front angled_Image1 

Caption: 10. Spouted vessel, MU0091, front-angled view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 10. Spouted vessel. A likely wheel-made ceramic vessel. There is a handle over the top of a flaring rim. The vessel has a narrow neck and a wide, ovoid-shaped body with a circular base.  At the shoulder of the vessel is a spout, pointed upwards to allow the vessel to tilt. Several faded black lines can be seen around the handle, neck, and body.  

Image 2 (File Name): 10 Spouted Vessel_MU0091_left side_Image2 

Caption: 10. Spouted vessel, MU0091, left side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 10. Spouted vessel. A likely wheel-made ceramic vessel. There is a handle over the top of a flaring rim. The vessel has a narrow neck and a wide, ovoid-shaped body with a circular base.  At the shoulder of the vessel is a spout, pointed upwards to allow the vessel to tilt. Several faded black lines appear around the handle, neck, and body.  

Image 3 (File Name): 10 Spouted Vessel_MU0091_right side_Image3 

Caption: 10. Spouted vessel, MU0091, right side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 10. Spouted vessel. A likely wheel-made ceramic vessel. There is a handle over the top of a flaring rim. The vessel has a narrow neck and a wide, ovoid-shaped body with a circular base.  At the shoulder of the vessel is a spout, pointed upwards to allow the vessel to tilt. The vessel is angled so only one side is visible. On this side, the faded black lines, including one prominent wavy line, are stronger.  

Image 4 (File Name): 10 Spouted Vessel_MU0091_front_Image4 

Caption: 10. Spouted vessel, MU0091, front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 10. Spouted vessel. A likely wheel-made ceramic vessel. There is a handle over the top of a flaring rim. The vessel has a narrow neck and a wide, ovoid-shaped body with a circular base.  At the shoulder of the vessel is a spout, pointed upwards to allow the vessel to tilt. Several faded black and brown lines appear around the handle, neck, and body.  

Image 5 (File Name): 10 Spouted Vessel_MU0091_back_Image5 

Caption: 10. Spouted vessel, MU0091, back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 10. Spouted vessel. A likely wheel-made ceramic vessel. There is a handle over the top of a flaring rim. The vessel has a narrow neck and a wide, ovoid-shaped body with a circular base.  A spout at the shoulder of the vessel points upward to allow the vessel to tilt. Several faded black and brown lines can be seen around the handle, neck, and body.  

Image 6 (File Name): 10 Spouted Vessel_MU0091_top_Image6 

Caption: 10. Spouted vessel, MU0091, top view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 10. Spouted vessel. A likely wheel-made ceramic vessel. There is a handle over the top of a flaring rim. The vessel has a narrow neck and a wide, ovoid-shaped body with a circular base.  At the shoulder of the vessel is a spout, pointed upwards to allow the vessel to tilt. Several faded black and brown lines can be seen around the handle, neck, and body. The vessel has been angled so the top is in view. The brown and black lines continue on the top of the handle.  

Image 7 (File Name): 10 Spouted Vessel_MU0091_bottom_Image7 

Caption: 10. Spouted vessel, MU0091, bottom view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 10. Spouted vessel. A likely wheel-made ceramic vessel. There is a handle over the top of a flaring rim. The vessel has a narrow neck and a wide, ovoid-shaped body with a circular base.  At the shoulder of the vessel is a spout, pointed upwards to allow the vessel to tilt. Several faded black lines can be seen around the handle, neck, and body. The vessel has been tilted to show the base, the museum number can be seen in white marker, ‘MU 91.’ 

 

 

3D scan: Yes/No 

Link: https://macquarie.nira.app/a/zaSvnz2gQaKZvnd4oG-fYg/1 

 

 

Object Details: 

Overview Text: * 

 

Audio (Visual) Description: A likely wheel-made ceramic vessel. There is a handle arching over a flaring rim. The vessel has a narrow neck and wide, ovoid-shaped body tapering to a small circular base.  At the shoulder of the vessel is a spout, pointed upwards at an acute angle to allow the vessel to tilt. Several faded black painted lines can be seen as decoration around the handle, neck, and body. The spout was likely originally painted black in colour, although the surface is now eroded in places. The painted lines around the neck are tightly arranged, with a thick black line at the neck base. A thick, faded, wavy line extends around the shoulder of the vessel at the level of the spout.  

  

Object Information:  

Acq. No: MU0091 

Material: Ceramic 

Dimensions: * 

Details: Mycenaean, c.1400-1200 B.C.E. Purchased in 1997.  

 

 

Object 11:  

 

Object Name: 11. Feeding Vessel  

 

Images: 

Image 1 (File Name): 11 Feeding Vessel_MU3368_hero shot_Image1 

Caption: 11. Feeding vessel, MU3368, front angled view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 11. Feeding vessel. A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top perforated with several incised holes in the centre, a narrow handle, a thin pouring spout and a flat base. 

Image 2 (File Name): 11 Feeding Vessel_MU3368_front_Image2 

Caption: 11. Feeding vessel, MU3368, front view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 11. Feeding vessel. A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top perforated with several incised holes in the centre, a narrow handle, a thin pouring spout and a flat base. There is some discolouration around the tip of the spout where the glaze has worn off.  

Image 3 (File Name): 11 Feeding Vessel_MU3368_front left side_Image3 

Caption: 11. Feeding vessel, MU3368, front-left side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 11. Feeding vessel. A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top perforated with several incised holes in the centre, a narrow handle, a thin pouring spout and a flat base 

Image 4 (File Name): 11 Feeding Vessel_MU3368_left side_Image4 

Caption: 11. Feeding vessel, MU3368, left side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 11. Feeding vessel. A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top perforated with several incised holes in the centre, a narrow handle, a thin pouring spout and a flat base. A small but deep horizontal scratch is visible on the vessel body, just below the neck.  

Image 5 (File Name): 11 Feeding Vessel_MU3368_back left side_Image5 

Caption: 11. Feeding vessel, MU3368, back-left side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 11. Feeding vessel. A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top perforated with several incised holes in the centre, a narrow handle, a thin pouring spout and a flat base 

Image 6 (File Name): 11 Feeding Vessel_MU3368_back_Image6 

Caption: 11. Feeding vessel, MU3368, back view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 11. Feeding vessel. A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top perforated with several incised holes in the centre, a narrow handle, a thin pouring spout and a flat base 

Image 7 (File Name): 11 Feeding Vessel_MU3368_back right side_Image7 

Caption: 11. Feeding vessel, MU3368, back-right side view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 11. Feeding vessel. A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top perforated with several incised holes in the centre, a narrow handle, a thin pouring spout and a flat base 

Image 8 (File Name): 11 Feeding Vessel_MU3368_right side_Image8 

Caption: 11. Feeding vessel, MU3368, right side with handle in view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 11. Feeding vessel. A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top perforated with several incised holes in the centre, a narrow handle, a thin pouring spout and a flat base. The vessel is angled so its handle is in view. Where the handle meets the vessel body, the clay appears slightly raised and lumpy.  

Image 9 (File Name): 11 Feeding Vessel_MU3368_top_Image9 

Caption: 11. Feeding vessel, MU3368, top view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 11. Feeding vessel. A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top perforated with several incised holes in the centre, a narrow handle, thin pouring spout and a flat base. The vessel has been tilted so the top is in full view. 18 small round holes cluster in the centre of the lid, which is concave. There are some minor scratches into the black glaze.  

Image 10 (File Name): 11 Feeding Vessel_MU3368_bottom_Image10 

Caption: 11. Feeding vessel, MU3368, bottom view © Gale History Museum 

Alt Text: Object 11. Feeding vessel. A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top perforated several incised holes in the centre, a narrow handle, thin pouring spout and a flat base. The vessel is angled so the base is visible. It is an unglazed ‘terracotta’ in colouring, and the museum number is visible in white pen: ‘MU 3368.’  

 

3D scan: Yes/No 

Link: * 

 

Object Details: 

Overview Text: * 

 

Audio (Visual) Description:  A small, black ceramic vessel with an enclosed top featuring several perforated holes. The vessel features a narrow handle, thin pouring spout and a flat base.  In places, the applied black colouring is chipped, revealing orange coloured fired clay underneath.  

  

Object Information:  

Acq. No: MU3368 

Material: Ceramic 

Dimensions: * 

Details: Athens, c.400-350 B.C.E. Purchased in 1997.   

 